QUICK_START_GUIDE.md, before:

# 🚀 Quick Start Guide - Flutter Garden App
**Get your garden planner app running in under 30 minutes!**

---

## 🎯 **What You'll Have After This Guide**
A working Flutter web app that displays garden beds in a beautiful grid, with the foundation ready for task management and data persistence.

---

## ⚡ **Prerequisites Check**
Before starting, ensure you have:
- ✅ **Flutter SDK** installed and in your PATH
- ✅ **Chrome browser** (for web development)
- ✅ **VS Code or Cursor** with Flutter extensions
- ✅ **Git** for version control (recommended)

**Check Flutter installation:**
```bash
flutter doctor
```

---

## 🚀 **Step 1: Create the Project (5 minutes)**

### **Create Flutter Project**
```bash
# Navigate to your desired directory
cd /path/to/your/projects

# Create the Flutter project
flutter create garden_planner

# Enter the project directory
cd garden_planner
```

### **Add Dependencies**
Open `pubspec.yaml` and replace the dependencies section:
```yaml
dependencies:
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter
  provider: ^6.1.2
  shared_preferences: ^2.2.3
  cupertino_icons: ^1.0.2
```

### **Install Dependencies**
```bash
flutter pub get
```

---

## 📁 **Step 2: Set Up Data Structure (5 minutes)**

### **Create Assets Folder**
```bash
mkdir assets
```

### **Create Initial Data File**
Create `assets/garden_data.json` with the content from `SESSION_IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md` (Session 1, Step 5).

### **Configure Assets**
Add to `pubspec.yaml` under the `flutter:` section:
```yaml
flutter:
  uses-material-design: true
  assets:
    - assets/garden_data.json
```

---

## 🏗️ **Step 3: Create Data Models (5 minutes)**

### **Create Models Directory**
```bash
mkdir lib/models
```

### **Create Garden Models File**
Create `lib/models/garden_models.dart` with the content from `SESSION_IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md` (Session 2, Step 2).

---

## ⚙️ **Step 4: Set Up State Management (5 minutes)**

### **Create Providers Directory**
```bash
mkdir lib/providers
```

### **Create Garden Provider**
Create `lib/providers/garden_provider.dart` with the content from `SESSION_IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md` (Session 3, Step 2).

### **Update Main App**
Replace the contents of `lib/main.dart` with the content from `SESSION_IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md` (Session 3, Step 3).

---

## 🏠 **Step 5: Create the UI (10 minutes)**

### **Create Screens Directory**
```bash
mkdir lib/screens
```

### **Create Garden Layout View**
Create `lib/screens/garden_layout_view.dart` with the content from `SESSION_IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md` (Session 4, Step 2).

### **Create Home Screen**
Create `lib/screens/home_screen.dart` with the content from `SESSION_IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md` (Session 4, Step 3).

### **Update Main App**
Update the import and home property in `lib/main.dart` as shown in Session 4, Step 4.

---

## 🧪 **Step 6: Test Your App (5 minutes)**

### **Run the App**
```bash
flutter run -d chrome
```

### **What You Should See**
- ✅ App loads with a green theme
- ✅ Bottom navigation with "Garden Beds" and "Tasks" tabs
- ✅ Grid of garden bed cards showing your data
- ✅ Tapping beds shows snackbar messages
- ✅ Tasks tab shows "Coming soon" message

---

## 🎉 **Congratulations!**

You now have a **fully functional garden planner app** with:
- 🌱 **Garden bed management** - Visual grid layout
- 📱 **Responsive design** - Works on all screen sizes
- 🎨 **Beautiful UI** - Material Design 3 components
- ⚡ **State management** - Provider pattern for data
- 📊 **Real data** - Your garden information displayed

---

## 🔮 **What's Next?**

### **Immediate Next Steps**
1. **Test thoroughly** - Make sure everything works as expected
2. **Customize data** - Update `garden_data.json` with your parents' actual garden
3. **Commit code** - Save your progress with git
4. **Continue building** - Move to Session 5 (Bed Detail Modal)

### **Session 5: Bed Detail Modal**
- Add detailed bed information views
- Implement modal bottom sheets
- Show soil and crop details

### **Future Sessions**
- Task management system
- Data persistence
- Polish and deployment

---

## 🆘 **Troubleshooting Common Issues**

### **App Won't Start**
```bash
# Check Flutter installation
flutter doctor

# Clean and rebuild
flutter clean
flutter pub get
flutter run -d chrome
```

### **Dependencies Not Found**
```bash
# Ensure you're in the project directory
cd garden_planner

# Reinstall dependencies
flutter pub get
```

### **Assets Not Loading**
- Check `pubspec.yaml` indentation (use spaces, not tabs)
- Verify file path: `assets/garden_data.json`
- Restart the app after adding assets

### **Import Errors**
- Check file paths in import statements
- Ensure all directories are created
- Verify file names match exactly

---

## 📚 **Resources for Learning**

### **Flutter Documentation**
- [Flutter.dev](https://flutter.dev) - Official documentation
- [Flutter Web](https://flutter.dev/web) - Web-specific guidance
- [Provider Package](https://pub.dev/packages/provider) - State management

### **Dart Language**
- [Dart.dev](https://dart.dev) - Language reference
- [Dart Tour](https://dart.dev/guides/language/language-tour) - Language basics

---

## 🎯 **Success Metrics**

After completing this quick start guide, you should have:
- ✅ **Working Flutter web app** running in Chrome
- ✅ **Garden bed grid** displaying your data
- ✅ **Bottom navigation** between views
- ✅ **Provider state management** working
- ✅ **Foundation** ready for advanced features

---

## 🚀 **Ready to Build Something Amazing?**

Your garden planner app is now ready for the next phase! Each session builds incrementally, so you can:
- **Test thoroughly** before moving forward
- **Get feedback** from your parents early
- **Iterate quickly** with the session-based approach
- **Build confidence** with each working feature

**Your parents are going to love having a custom garden management tool built just for them! 🌱**

---

*Need help? Refer to the detailed `SESSION_IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md` for step-by-step instructions with troubleshooting tips.*

Commit message:

docs: consolidate planning into README and SESSION_IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE
- README: mark Sessions 1–3 complete; add TODOs and current progress
- Session Guide: mark Sessions 1–3 completed; adjust success criteria; note Session 4 next
- Add consolidation notes to plan, quick start, and visual research docs

QUICK_START_GUIDE.md, after:

# 🚀 Quick Start Guide - Flutter Garden App

Note: The canonical plan and step-by-step implementation are consolidated into `README.md` and `SESSION_IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md`. This quick start remains as a lightweight onboarding reference; for authoritative steps and current status, see those files.
**Get your garden planner app running in under 30 minutes!**

---

## 🎯 **What You'll Have After This Guide**
A working Flutter web app that displays garden beds in a beautiful grid, with the foundation ready for task management and data persistence.

---

## ⚡ **Prerequisites Check**
Before starting, ensure you have:
- ✅ **Flutter SDK** installed and in your PATH
- ✅ **Chrome browser** (for web development)
- ✅ **VS Code or Cursor** with Flutter extensions
- ✅ **Git** for version control (recommended)

**Check Flutter installation:**
```bash
flutter doctor
```

---

## 🚀 **Step 1: Create the Project (5 minutes)**

### **Create Flutter Project**
```bash
# Navigate to your desired directory
cd /path/to/your/projects

# Create the Flutter project
flutter create garden_planner

# Enter the project directory
cd garden_planner
```

### **Add Dependencies**
Open `pubspec.yaml` and replace the dependencies section:
```yaml
dependencies:
  flutter:
    sdk: flutter
  provider: ^6.1.2
  shared_preferences: ^2.2.3
  cupertino_icons: ^1.0.2
```

### **Install Dependencies**
```bash
flutter pub get
```

---

## 📁 **Step 2: Set Up Data Structure (5 minutes)**

### **Create Assets Folder**
```bash
mkdir assets
```

### **Create Initial Data File**
Create `assets/garden_data.json` with the content from `SESSION_IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md` (Session 1, Step 5).

### **Configure Assets**
Add to `pubspec.yaml` under the `flutter:` section:
```yaml
flutter:
  uses-material-design: true
  assets:
    - assets/garden_data.json
```

---

## 🏗️ **Step 3: Create Data Models (5 minutes)**

### **Create Models Directory**
```bash
mkdir lib/models
```

### **Create Garden Models File**
Create `lib/models/garden_models.dart` with the content from `SESSION_IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md` (Session 2, Step 2).

---

## ⚙️ **Step 4: Set Up State Management (5 minutes)**

### **Create Providers Directory**
```bash
mkdir lib/providers
```

### **Create Garden Provider**
Create `lib/providers/garden_provider.dart` with the content from `SESSION_IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md` (Session 3, Step 2).

### **Update Main App**
Replace the contents of `lib/main.dart` with the content from `SESSION_IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md` (Session 3, Step 3).

---

## 🏠 **Step 5: Create the UI (10 minutes)**

### **Create Screens Directory**
```bash
mkdir lib/screens
```

### **Create Garden Layout View**
Create `lib/screens/garden_layout_view.dart` with the content from `SESSION_IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md` (Session 4, Step 2).

### **Create Home Screen**
Create `lib/screens/home_screen.dart` with the content from `SESSION_IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md` (Session 4, Step 3).

### **Update Main App**
Update the import and home property in `lib/main.dart` as shown in Session 4, Step 4.

---

## 🧪 **Step 6: Test Your App (5 minutes)**

### **Run the App**
```bash
flutter run -d chrome
```

### **What You Should See**
- ✅ App loads with a green theme
- ✅ Bottom navigation with "Garden Beds" and "Tasks" tabs
- ✅ Grid of garden bed cards showing your data
- ✅ Tapping beds shows snackbar messages
- ✅ Tasks tab shows "Coming soon" message

---

## 🎉 **Congratulations!**

You now have a **fully functional garden planner app** with:
- 🌱 **Garden bed management** - Visual grid layout
- 📱 **Responsive design** - Works on all screen sizes
- 🎨 **Beautiful UI** - Material Design 3 components
- ⚡ **State management** - Provider pattern for data
- 📊 **Real data** - Your garden information displayed

---

## 🔮 **What's Next?**

### **Immediate Next Steps**
1. **Test thoroughly** - Make sure everything works as expected
2. **Customize data** - Update `garden_data.json` with your parents' actual garden
3. **Commit code** - Save your progress with git
4. **Continue building** - Move to Session 5 (Bed Detail Modal)

### **Session 5: Bed Detail Modal**
- Add detailed bed information views
- Implement modal bottom sheets
- Show soil and crop details

### **Future Sessions**
- Task management system
- Data persistence
- Polish and deployment

---

## 🆘 **Troubleshooting Common Issues**

### **App Won't Start**
```bash
# Check Flutter installation
flutter doctor

# Clean and rebuild
flutter clean
flutter pub get
flutter run -d chrome
```

### **Dependencies Not Found**
```bash
# Ensure you're in the project directory
cd garden_planner

# Reinstall dependencies
flutter pub get
```

### **Assets Not Loading**
- Check `pubspec.yaml` indentation (use spaces, not tabs)
- Verify file path: `assets/garden_data.json`
- Restart the app after adding assets

### **Import Errors**
- Check file paths in import statements
- Ensure all directories are created
- Verify file names match exactly

---

## 📚 **Resources for Learning**

### **Flutter Documentation**
- [Flutter.dev](https://flutter.dev) - Official documentation
- [Flutter Web](https://flutter.dev/web) - Web-specific guidance
- [Provider Package](https://pub.dev/packages/provider) - State management

### **Dart Language**
- [Dart.dev](https://dart.dev) - Language reference
- [Dart Tour](https://dart.dev/guides/language/language-tour) - Language basics

---

## 🎯 **Success Metrics**

After completing this quick start guide, you should have:
- ✅ **Working Flutter web app** running in Chrome
- ✅ **Garden bed grid** displaying your data
- ✅ **Bottom navigation** between views
- ✅ **Provider state management** working
- ✅ **Foundation** ready for advanced features

---

## 🚀 **Ready to Build Something Amazing?**

Your garden planner app is now ready for the next phase! Each session builds incrementally, so you can:
- **Test thoroughly** before moving forward
- **Get feedback** from your parents early
- **Iterate quickly** with the session-based approach
- **Build confidence** with each working feature

**Your parents are going to love having a custom garden management tool built just for them! 🌱**

---

*Need help? Refer to the detailed `SESSION_IMPLEMENTATION_GUIDE.md` for step-by-step instructions with troubleshooting tips.*
